# Course-Safari
## Introduction
Our team consists of six full-stack members, with the aim to develop the **most comprehensive and convenient course planning and degree tracker platform** for Emory students. We believe that the course registration process can be improved by the featured functions of our platform, including intelligent course planner and user-friendly degree tracker. In this project, *Emory University is our primary customer, and Emory students are the intended users of our platform.* We hope that a more satisfying academic life at Emory can facilitate the college experience of the student body while benefiting Emory University in terms of its rankings and reputation.
## Motivation
With experience struggling with course planning, we found the current course registration and degree tracker in OPUS not user-friendly. For example, students can only save their desired courses into shopping carts and have nowhere to store their multiple backup plans. Also, the information in the degree tracker is hard to read, which makes it time-consuming for students to have a clear picture of their academic progress. We believe that well designed pages with color categorizations will solve this problem. In addition, students need to use resources across multiple websites to obtain comprehensive information about courses, such as professor rating and workload. Our integrated platform would allow students to finish their research for class registration on one command, both saving time and promoting efficiency.
## Macro Stages
There are **mainly three stages** of our project. The first stage is a *basic framework* that we would consider deliverable. That is, we need to have the main frontend web pages ready, host it on the web, and have a functional backend. A functional backend in this stage should include a chosen type database system (SQL or NoSQL) and organized data, like specific fields and keys. We expect most data being hardcoded in this stage due to the time-consuming nature of our data collection plan with web-scraping. The second stage of the project emphasizes *transition from hardcoded data to real-time data on Emory websites*. In the last stage of the project, we would like to challenge ourselves with developing an *intelligent recommendation system* in course registration planning. By taking students’ major requirements and courses they have already taken, the algorithm outputs multiple schedules for the user based on class times and GER.
## Plan for Implementation
To achieve our goal, we plan on implementation, categorizing by **frontend and backend**. The frontend of the project is delivered in the form of webpages, through which some key functions will be implemented: the user account, degree tracker, and course registration schedule . Our users will be able to create their accounts, where personal information like majors and courses already taken will be recorded. With data inputted from users, our degree tracker will help students track their academic progress in a visually friendly manner. With their current status available, students will be able to create their plans for the current and future semesters with our course registration schedule page. For the backend, there are mainly three parts of our work: server connection, database, and algorithm. For server connection, we will host our server (on GCP/ Azure), connecting the frontend and backend works. For the database, we will design a clear structure that could return all necessary data in an organized and efficient way. Our main database includes user log-in information, user courses record, currently available classes, real-time major requirement, and general education requirements. For the algorithm, we want to develop a web-crawler algorithm collecting information and a course recommendation algorithm based on specific situations of each user.
